---
layout: post
title: Australian News for WatchOS
description: The nation's headlines, on your wrist.
date: 28/09/2019
---

Hello! My name is Jake Bloom, and I wrote an app for Apple Watch. I hope you like it! It shows you Australian news headlines, on your wrist, along with a summary of the article.

### FAQ

**Why did you build this?**

I was bored and was looking for something new to learn, and had just bought an Apple Watch. I think wearable technology is fascinating, because we have only really scratched the surface of what they can do, and there is such a huge potential to change the way we interact with each other, with technology and with the internet.

**Where do you get your news from?**

A very good question - I source the headlines from ABC News in Australia.

**Why did you choose ABC News?**

There's an API for it that is pretty reliable, and it tends to have the least clickbaity news, which is important when you have limited space.

**How often does it update?**

Every hour or so

**Does it work without an internet connection?**

Not right now

<a id="privacy"></a>

### Privacy Policy

I don't collect any personalally identifying information about you. I don't get your name, email, IP address or anything.

When you open the app, a request is made to an Amazon S3 bucket that contains the headlines and stories. Access Logs have been disabled on this bucket, so I don't even know your IP Address.

If you think I have some of your personal information and you wish to chat about it, please [email me](mailto:gday@jakebloom.me).

### Open Source

Because why not, I have open sourced the repo. [You can see it on GitHub here](https://github.com/jakebloom/WatchNews)