---
layout: post
title: Last Week
date: 28/03/2020
---

### Friday.

Wake up. Out of bed, shoes on and step out into the cold morning air. It is always quiet this early in San Francisco, and today is no exception. The skies are blue, the sun is shining and the streets are quiet as I walk up Haight and Fillmore streets to Alamo Square park and the Painted Ladies.


Today is Friday the thirteenth of March 2020. Friends of a more superstitious disposition have told me to be wary of this week: a full moon, the daylight savings change, Friday the thirteenth and COVID-19 starting to take hold in America. I laugh it off though - vivid memories of a Jewish Studies teacher telling me "Jews are not superstitious". I've had a productive week despite being told to start working from home. Zoe is planning to stay the weekend with me, and I'm looking forward to spending time with her.


Get home. Change. Boot up the laptop and dial into our meeting. I'm waiting for my team to join. My phone rings. It's my dad, calling at 3:30am in Sydney. I answer.


> "I'm about to go into a meeting, can I call you in half an hour?"

> "No, this is urgent"

> "What's going on?"

> "Abe has been rushed to hospital and has two weeks to live"


I don't remember the rest of that conversation. We spoke about me coming back to Australia. Dad said I shouldn't since countries were closing borders left and right, and leaving the US meant I might not be able to get back. Airlines were also cancelling flights, so even if the border stayed open I might not be able to get a flight.


I messaged my team that I wouldn't be able to make our meeting and called my dad back. Then got in the shower and screamed. I screamed at G-d. I screamed at myself for not being there for my family. I screamed at the Chinese Communist Party for covering up their ineptitude and putting the world in a position where I wouldn't be able to hug my gran at her husband's funeral.


Water off. Brush teeth. Boot up the laptop. Instead of my colleagues' faces on my screen, it's Zoe. She's crying and I'm barely holding it together.


> "If you need to go, you should go"


This is difficult for her to say and we both know it. We haven't spent much time together recently, since I have been taking weekend ski trips or to L.A. to watch rugby with my Dad. Now I'm drawing up plans to travel across the globe during a pandemic, and might not make it back.

--

It is 9am in Sydney now and my phone rings again. It's my mum.

> "You should come. You probably can't go to the hospital, but I really think you should come and be with your dad."

> "I know."

### Sunday.

Wake up. Roll over. Check my phone. There are messages on it. From my dad. It's photos of a press conference, where the Australian Prime Minister is announcing that all international arrivals need to "self-isolate" for fourteen days.

Shower. Change. Check the news. Qantas is cancelling flights all over the shop. Call mum. She is in her car. She says I should still come. Call dad. He is at the hospital with Abe. Dad says stay in the states. I anguish. I'm an indecisive person. Dad gives the phone to Abe and leaves the room.

I thank Abe for everything he has done for the family. For bringing us out of South Africa, for insisting the whole family live together in Australia, for all the happy memories on Friday nights or in Port Douglas.

He told me he was proud of me for moving to the US for a career. He told me to take care of my family and take care of Zoe. I told him that I'm trying.

--

Sunday night and my friends Nicola, Emma and Steven are over, Zoe and I are hosting a dinner party. None of us are concerned, all being in our twenties we tell ourselves and each other that we are "low-risk", that the new "social distancing" guidelines and public awareness will help. We make fun of the people fighting to buy toilet paper given that the shelves of paracetamol and ibuprofen are untouched.

After dinner, we decide to go to a supermarket because we all do have things we want to stock up on. We get inside and the shelves are empty.

Pallets of boxed rice and pasta have been left in the aisles, the staff unwilling to pack the displays. Queues half an hour long to get to the register. A creeping sense of dread rises up. We are preparing for a disaster. Humans know how to respond to natural disasters, but we don't know how to prepare.

The kosher section is untouched, so Zoe and I stock up on chicken soup and latkes.

--

My grandfather's test results have come back looking more positive, but I can't shake that feeling of dread. I can't shake the feeling that I'm being useless by sitting on the other side of the world. I can't look past my inability to decide to stay or go.

### Monday.

Wake up. Shoes on. Out the door and into the cool morning air. Zoe and I run up the hill to the park and do some laps around it while watching the dogs play. We make plans to watch TV together, do a puzzle and make eggplant parmesan in the evening. We laugh that if I do go to Australia, I might actually be able to get a test for COVID-19, something that doesn't seem to be possible in the US.

While we are eating breakfast, I call my cousin Nicole, who lives in London. We talk about the situation we are in, and she says that she is planning to leave the UK on Thursday, putting her in Sydney on Saturday, and if they announce the borders are closing, get the first flight back.

Zoe and I agree this sounds like a good plan, and decide that I should do the same.

--

I'm sitting on my couch with my laptop. It is 1pm, and my meeting has been pushed back so we can watch an announcement from the Mayor of San Francisco. She stands at a podium, two metres away from her aids, and tells the camera that the San Francisco Bay Area is going into lock down. All businesses closed except for food, petrol and healthcare.

Do essential businesses include San Francisco airport? Will I still be able to get a flight on Thursday? There are no answers to these questions. I book the first flight I can to Sydney, with a layover in Melbourne. I get a reservation number, but the booking is not confirmed.

Zoe is at her parents house and rushes back to my apartment. She is panicking because she is going into lock down and I'm leaving in a few hours. I am panicking for the same reasons. I throw some clothes into a bag and then we sit together and hold each other for a while, telling each other that everything is going to be okay.

We get into the car and set off for the airport. I'm driving. I check my speed. Check the mirrors. Squeeze Zoe's hand. Tell her it's going to be okay. Check my speed. The mirrors. Her hand. It's going to be okay. Speed. Mirrors. Hand. It's okay.

--

We get to the airport and there's only two flights out. QF50 to Melbourne and QF74 to Sydney. I stand in a line with people that look familiar, that sound familiar and are making light of the situation. ("The flight yesterday was cancelled because the plane wouldn't start. The pilot forgot his keys!")

I get to the front of the line. I have my passport, I have the reservation number. The check-in bloke makes a call, and stays on the phone for what feels like an eternity. He comes back to me with a boarding pass and a seat number.

I kiss Zoe goodbye and hold her tight. She is being so brave. I know she wants to tell me not to go, she wants to tell me that she needs my help through the lock down. But we both know I need to be with my family.

Through our relationship, the last thing I ever wanted to do was choose between her and my family. It felt like I had just had to make that choice, and it was just as painful as I feared.

I boarded the flight. Despite there only being two flights out of San Francisco, we still managed to depart late. We pushed back, and "I still call Australia home" comes over the speakers.

### Wednesday.

Eyes open. Wheels down. Phone on. Get my bag and through to the domestic terminal. Empty airport. Wheels up. Eyes closed. Eyes open. Wheels down. Sydney.

Mum meets me at the baggage collection and I insist that she doesn't hug me.

> "This might be hard to hear mum but you're actually in a high risk demographic"

> "You're saying I'm old? Fuck off."


We get home and my dad gives me a hug before I can stop him.

> "I've got a stent and I'm asthmatic so I'm sure I'll be fine"

He says, sarcastically.

I sit down at my laptop. I try to do some work but my eyes wont focus. I get a coffee and talk to my mum for a bit. I do some more work and then go outside and play fetch with the dog. I take her for a walk round the block and fall asleep.

### Thursday.

Wake up. Laptop on. Get a coffee and sit. I'm giving a presentation at work at 6:30am Sydney time. I do some more work. Suddenly it is 10:30am and Qantas has just announced that they are cancelling all international flights from "late March". They don't give a specific date. My flight back is booked in April.


I start to panic. I call Qantas and beg them to rebook my ticket but they can't, because they don't have any frequent flyer seats left. Planes are filling up as we are talking. I get online and book a ticket back for Monday for a huge amount of money, one way. I sit back and exhale, sweating, knowing that I should be able to make it back.


That afternoon, I sit downstairs with dad and we shoot the shit, talking and working, working and talking. It felt good to be able to spend time with him, and I felt better for fulfilling the reason that I came. It was a short few hours that meant the world to us.

I went out that evening to a beach with my mum. I've always maintained that you never regret going for a swim and this is no exception.

### Friday.

Wake up. Coffee. Take the dog for a walk. Come home. Get my phone. My grandfather has died. The funeral is in a few hours.

Dad gets back home from the hospital and I help him learn the kaddish while Cosmo sits at our feet.

Underwear. Socks. Shirt. Pants. Shoes. Jacket. Face mask. Sunglasses. Hand sanitizer. I'm going to this funeral, and I'm unable to be a pall-bearer, I can't give my gran a hug and I can't shake anyone's hand.


Jewish funerals are awful. Part of the service is that the close family members of the deceased have to fill the grave. Holding a shovel and hearing the dirt you've scooped up smack against the wood of the coffin of someone you love is one of the worst feelings in the world.

Then, since you bury Jewish people in their *talit* (prayer shawl), you walk away from the funeral and all you're left with from the sum total of a person's life is the velvet bag that that the talit came in.

Nevertheless, it is good to see the family. We laugh through the strange circumstances and put on a service that Abe would have liked. Short, small and outside. We run through the prayers and then go back to the house. There's food and some gins, and I sit out on the balcony by myself while the family sits inside looking at photos and swapping stories. I don't want to risk infecting anyone and they don't want to take the risk being near me.

We get home and I go for a swim. I get out and see photos of friends at Bondi, along with crowds of thousands of people, and I see photos of friends quarantined in San Francisco. I'm anxious. It feels like Australians aren't taking the threat seriously and are playing around with death, just as I've come back from a funeral.

I rebook my flight again to go back tomorrow.


### Saturday.

> "I just don't understand why you're flying from here into a lock down. That seems dumb. You should stay here instead."

My mum is doing what any good Jewish mother would do. Trying to guilt her son into not leaving home and put himself in danger. We are running on the sand at Bondi, which is much quieter today. My dad is up on the walkway, and passers by are wishing him long life. We really do live in a shtetl. The sun is up and it's warm.

Some friends are coming over today. They let themselves in to my house and make themselves at home. I get healthcare for free here and cases are starting to grow sharply in the US. I start to second guess myself and think about staying. But I know it doesn't make sense in the long run.

I have a job and an apartment in San Francisco. Zoe is there. I'm unlikely to get seriously ill. Local governments in California are taking COVID more seriously than the Australian government seems to be. On the balance of things, I would rather be in the US with the option of coming back to Australia, than in Australia stuck without a way to get to the US.

I pack my things and we set off for the airport. I hug my parents and check in to my flight. The airport worker just stares at me like I am mental, and says, in her bogan drawl:

> "Why the fuck would you want to be there rather than here?"

I smile and tell her that I work in health. I drop my bags and make my way onto the flight.

The flight is uneventful. I land in Hawaii and walk around the terminal to keep myself occupied. I'm grateful to be back on US soil now. I get on the next flight and land back in San Francisco.


### Epilogue.

According to the World Health Organization, the average incubation period of COVID-19 is about four to five days. So Zoe stays away from me for a week. During that week, I can't sleep. I toss and turn, and often have nightmares of my family getting infected because of my presence at the funeral.

The days pass and I calm down. In the mornings, I put on my talit and tefillin, that Abe bought me, and I daven shacharit. I don't necessarily believe in prayer, but I do it more for me. To remind myself of the childhood where I did this every day and I didn't have to worry about familial health, job security, the closing price of the S&P 500, or whether the homeless bloke outside is going to break my car window.

My family stays healthy. Zoe moves in and I start sleeping better and getting more productive at work. COVID-19 will pass and things will go back to normal.

I'm never flying across the globe during a global pandemic ever again.

*For Gran, Dad, Mum, David, Viv, Bruce, Nicky, Mandi, Dean, Ella, Georgia, Carol, Jeff, Noonsi, Rob, Aaron, Mikey, Belle and Cosmo.*